ah I have been doing this for a long
time and I still do not know how to make
the perfect thumbnail do I add some big
red arrow maybe a big
smile maybe like this perhaps a touch of
Z wait no of course I'll use YouTube's
ABC thumbnail tester I mean sure it's
twice as much work for our thumbnail
artist Maria but hey uh you don't mind
right um actually L know some
great while you get that going I'm going
to explain to the good people what
exactly it is that we're up to with our
little
experiment late last year we were given
access to a tool that allows us to
upload multiple thumbnails for the same
video and then keep only the one that
performs the best and we've spent many
hours experimenting with some sometimes
confusing results I mean times the
winner is painfully obvious but other
times it is impossible to decipher just
what the heck you guys liked about the
thumbnail of choice just like it's
impossible to determine when I'm going
to segue to our sponsor see I gotta that
wasn't the segue
[Music]
MSI does your gaming prowess need some
divine intervention msi's Meg z790
Godlike Max motherboard might not
actually make you a gaming deity but
we'd like to imagine that if there was
such a thing they'd be using one go
check it out in the description below
let's kick things off with a result that
still has us flum mixed Belle's AMD Tech
upgrade features him either on the left
or on the right and the people have
spoken and Bell on the right is our big
winner with 56 points .9% of the shared
total watch time that means that those
of you who watched it were served either
of these two thumbnails during our test
and the ones who clicked on this one
stuck around for significantly longer or
wait hold on a second stuck around
longer yeah well here's the thing if
YouTube gave creators a tool that just
chose a winning thumbnail based on the
clickthrough rate we would be straight
back to the Dark Ages within a matter of
hours so instead they built an incentive
for this tool that aligns with their
agenda which is of course to keep you
watching YouTube for as long as possible
so the best thumbnail is the one that
best sells the content that you're about
to enjoy coming back to Bell then he
thinks it's obviously because his left
side is his better side who could blame
him he's right but we think that it
could have more to do with how the
viewer's eye gets directed most of our
audience speaks English which means that
they probably read from left to right on
the page so a thumbnail that
communicates in order there there is a
strong correlation between the title and
concept this is almost certainly a Linus
Tech tips video and he's going to do an
upgrade that makes a member of his team
happy might outperform one that
communicates here's a guy who's happy
and doesn't look very stealthy oh by the
way I think that's line is standing in
an empty room maybe I don't know for
this one your guess is as good as mine
and I would love to hear your theories
down below hey you yeah you if you want
to hear more of our theories Maria and I
will be filming a closer look about the
thumbnails we don't talk about in this
video get subscribed to on float plane
so you don't miss it and check out some
of our other content while you wait
let's change gears though and look at an
easier one the Scorpion chair we pitted
a pallet of unopened boxes against the
chair in all of its Glory now
conventional clickbait wisdom might be
to give away as little information as
possible in hopes of enticing you with
curiosity but as you can see the chair
thumbnail won by a landslide with 69
nice. 2% of the shared watch time and in
this case it's kind of obvious if you
think about it you see the chair you
click the chair you stay for the chair
you see a pallet of boxes you click a
pallet of boxes you get a weird
chair well see you later it is entirely
possible that the mystery boxes may have
driven more clicks maybe a lot more
clicks and they could have even resulted
in more counted views but the cold hard
truth is that YouTube doesn't want to
build tools that help an individual
Creator get lots of views they want to
build tools to increase viewer
satisfaction on the platform as a whole
which is a good thing it's just that
it's really hard to do as it turned out
the vast majority of our tests were much
more evenly split even in cases where we
uploaded dramatically different images
check out this one I didn't even realize
that we had started this test until I
saw this thumbnail on my feed for
reacting to our best PC builds ever
thumbnail one is the big open mouth that
I saw while thumbnail 2 is a more
relaxed natural smile I thought for sure
that this one would help us end the
cringe versus natural debate once and
for all but as it turns out y'all mostly
just kind of don't care the LT audience
seems to slightly prefer a closed mouth
or a natural smile versus a big wide
oace one like this but typically by just
1 or 2% more watch time emoting in
different ways does see some disparity
but it seems like it's less about lots
of emotion and more about ensuring that
the emotion or the mood suits the video
when we replaced our office PCS with
Dell oplex the neutral face ended up
outperforming the disgusted face so
maybe negativity is bad but then for the
$150,000 server video or frustrated or
upset thumbnail did way better than the
one in which I'm smiling in some ways
we've actually ended up with more
questions than we had when we started
what we think is happening though is
that some Expressions help us tell a
better story and there's a lot more to
it than just changing a face every
element of the thumbnail helps paint a
picture that informs and entices maybe
this background color was just too aggro
for a chill video like this one about
Cable Management where I'm relaxing at
my desk in a bathrobe people did not
like the razor Green version and
strongly prefer a more calming dark blue
if we choose to use text or icons in our
thumbnails we've got to ask oursel do we
need that big question mark could we
label things more clearly is text even
necessary or is the title of the video
enough another big part of our
experiment has been adding red arrows
pointing at the subject of the video
that it turns out though seems like a
big no no when the subject or the item
in question is super obvious like okay
the building behind you clearly smash
Champs and yeah that meta Quest 3 on
your face you're obviously going to be
talking about that we don't need a red
arrow to know that you can get this
super comfy dip diey hoodie from LTT
store.com do you Clarity is hugely
important but no one wants to be beaten
over the head with it with that said
arrows pointing out small objects that
aren't instantly recognizable those are
100% fair game and yeah most of this is
kind of just graphic design 2011 the
thumbnail is there to entice you draw
the eye but not mislead or add anything
unnecessary just never hurts to have a
refresher course so the tldd are for our
whole experiment boils down to a few key
points number one our core audience
doesn't seem to care that much about the
thumbnail in our first round of tests
the watchtime share was pretty close to
50/50 so either we're so good at
thumbnails that we can't make a bad one
if we try or more likely our loyal
subscribers know they want to watch LTT
and if they click the video they're
going to watch a decent amount of it
whether my mouth is open or closed or
I'm happy or sad or deranged or whatever
Point number two for those outside of
our Cor audience like the people being
served our video on the YouTube homepage
thanks to the almighty
algorithm
Alm
Alor for those folks Clarity is King
they don't want to gamble on whether
they're going to like what they're about
to watch and if they can't tell what's
going to happen or if they get 10 20
seconds into the video and they feel
misled the odds of them sticking around
are pretty low Point number three at the
end of the day it's all just packaging
it's important but it's not that
important you can think of the thumbnail
and title of a video kind of like a
candy wrapper I mean it's one thing to
get somebody to buy your chocolate bar
because it has shiny packaging but it is
something else entirely to keep them
coming back for more or recommending
your candy to their friends and of
course all of this needs to be taken as
preliminary results while this ABC
thumbnail tester is good and we are
going to continue to use it it could be
better because currently it doesn't tell
tell us some pretty important stuff like
it doesn't tell us if anyone was served
either thumbnail and didn't click at all
it doesn't break the numbers down by
subscriber versus new viewer and it's
limited to just three images I mean
imagine how much more we could learn if
we could upload say 10 thumbnails at a
time or if we could manually choose a
specific thumbnail or set of thumbnails
for the core audience and then something
totally different for new viewers all of
this is almost certainly in YouTube's
best interest and I fully expect them to
continue to develop this tool and I also
fully expect that as creators continue
to experiment the small details are
going to change even if the overall
findings prove to be a constant kind of
like I constantly segue to our sponsor
Squarespace it's 2024 and your brand or
business needs online presence listen I
don't make the rules we just play by
them building your own website may seem
daunting but Squarespace is there to
make it easier than figuring out just
how come your printer never works when
you want it to okay maybe not the best
example but yeah it's super easy
Squarespace is the easy to ous platform
to start selling or promoting anything
and everything on the old interwebs
local business portfolio blog
Squarespace has ready to use and easy to
customize themes and templates for
anything they even look great on mobile
devices and if you already have a
website Squarespace makes it super
simple to Port your domain over and
start using their customization and
marketing tools to really stand stand
out they even have 24/7 support which is
better than just yelling at your website
why are you doing this to me so go get
started on your web page today and head
over to squarespace.com
for 10% off your first purchase if you
guys enjoyed this video make sure to
check out the 2020 update of how does
lonus Media Group make money really
we're thrown of that one interesting are
we due for a new one